Add the 1.4 release notes (#417)
kyma-project/website: content/blog-posts/2019-08-08-release-notes-1.4/index.md

It basically means that at the moment we have 4 different views, and more to come, that render documentation. We decided that it was about time to consolidate our experience in this area into one component.  

- Documentation component project

As mentioned in the [previous release notes](https://kyma-project.io/blog/2019/7/12/release-notes-13/#documentation-component) we have one single project in which we maintain the Documentation component and just reuse it in different applications. We already introduced it in the Console UI Documentation view in the last release. In the 1.4 release, it was integrated into the Console UI Catalog and Instances views. In a few days, you will see the component being used on [kyma-project.io](https://kyma-project.io/).

- Improved look and feel

> While working on the Documentation component we took a closer look at the styling of different specs and decided to improve and unify them. Now the style is unified in Markdown, OpenAPI, and OData. In the next release, we would like to do the same with AsyncAPI.  

Author: I thought we should stick to Documentation component

This is the new Fiori 3-like design for the OpenAPI spec:

![OpenAPI spec](./openAPI-spec.png)

This is the new Fiori 3-like design for the Markdown spec with the new and much better approach to navigation with the right-hand side navigation:

![Markdown spec](./markdown-spec.png)

This is the new Fiori 3-like design for the OData spec:

![OData spec](./odata-spec.png)

### Conversion and validation service for the AsyncAPI 2.0 specs in the Headless CMS

> Since we introduced Kyma and its Application Connector component, from time to time we were getting reports that you could easily register an application with the AsyncAPI spec but the spec was not successfully rendered in the UI. The reason was always the same: the spec was not valid. It did not display because the validation was UI-side only.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Ever since we introduced Kyma and its Application Connector component, we have been getting reports that you could easily register an application with the AsyncAPI spec but the spec did not render successfully in the UI. The reason was each and every time the same: the spec was not valid. It did not display because the validation only worked on the UI.  
```

> We decided to finally solve the problem and introduce a service that validates the AsyncAPI spec before it is accepted by the Headless CMS. Because integrating the service with Kyma will take some time, we decided to introduce the validation already for the latest version of the AsyncAPI specification. As a result, the service we introduced not only handles validation of the spec but it also automatically converts the spec into the latest AsyncAPI version. For example, if you register the spec in version 1.0, 1.1, or 1.2, the service converts it to version 2.0.0-rc1.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We decided to finally solve the problem and introduce a service that validates the AsyncAPI spec before it is accepted by the Headless CMS. Because integrating the service with Kyma will take some time, we decided to introduce the validation already for the latest version of the AsyncAPI specification. As a result, the service we introduced not only handles validation of the spec but also automatically converts the spec into the latest AsyncAPI version. For example, if you register the spec in version 1.0, 1.1, or 1.2, the service converts it to version 2.0.0-rc1.
```

> By default, the functionality is disabled and the service is not provisioned or configured because we do not have the UI support for AsyncAPI 2.0 yet. To enable the validation service and play with it, override the following value:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This functionality is disabled by default, and the service is not provisioned or configured because we do not have the UI support for AsyncAPI 2.0 yet. To enable the validation service and play with it, override the following value:
```

```yaml
apiVersion: v1
kind: ConfigMap
metadata:
  name: cms-asyncapi-overrides
  namespace: kyma-installer
  labels:
    installer: overrides
    component: cms
    kyma-project.io/installation: ""
data:
  global.cmsAsyncAPIService.enabled: "true"
```

> After you override the value, you can create a DocsTopic resource using [this](https://kyma-project.io/docs/components/headless-cms/#custom-resource-docstopic-sample-custom-resource) example. The example contains a reference to the official Slack AsyncAPI spec provided in version 1.2. After you go through the steps for the happy path, create a new DocsTopic using an invalid spec. You can use the [invalid AsyncAPI spec](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/kyma-project/kyma/release-1.4/components/cms-services/pkg/endpoint/asyncapi/v1/testdata/invalid.json) we used for testing.

Reviewer: (1.4 instead of master)

> After you override the value, you can create a DocsTopic resource using [this](https://kyma-project.io/docs/components/headless-cms/#custom-resource-docstopic-sample-custom-resource) example. The example contains a reference to the official Slack AsyncAPI spec provided in version 1.2. After you go through the steps for the happy path, create a new DocsTopic using an invalid spec. You can use the [invalid AsyncAPI spec](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/kyma-project/kyma/release-1.4/components/cms-services/pkg/endpoint/asyncapi/v1/testdata/invalid.json) we used for testing.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After you override the value, you can create a DocsTopic resource using [this](https://kyma-project.io/docs/components/headless-cms/#custom-resource-docstopic-sample-custom-resource) example. The example contains a reference to the official Slack AsyncAPI spec provided in version 1.2. After you go through the steps successfully, create a new DocsTopic using an invalid spec. You can use the [invalid AsyncAPI spec](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/kyma-project/kyma/release-1.4/components/cms-services/pkg/endpoint/asyncapi/v1/testdata/invalid.json) we used for testing.
```

Author: I would like to stick to the happy path. Because we have two examples here: a happy path example and the other one with the invalid spec.

### Parameters object in the Headless CMS supported in the Console UI

> In the previous release we introduced a new field in the DocsTopic CR that allows you to provide custom parameters that later on, supported by the presentation layer, can modify the rendering options. After getting your feedback we renamed the field from **metadata** to **parameters** and enabled its support in the Console UI.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the previous release, we introduced a new field in the DocsTopic CR that allows you to provide custom parameters that can modify the rendering options when supported by the presentation layer. After getting your feedback, we renamed the field from **metadata** to **parameters** and enabled its support in the Console UI.
```

From now on, once you provide the **spec.sources.parameters.disableRelativeLinks** parameter for a Markdown source, the UI disables relative links and informs about it in a tooltip. This applies to a use case in which you render Markdown documentation that you do not own and that has some broken relative links. This is the only use case we support so far, but if you see other applications, please let us know. You can contact us on Slack or submit a GitHub issue.

## JSON Schema

### Definition and guidelines

We encourage you to read brand-new [documentation](https://github.com/kyma-project/community/blob/master/guidelines/technical-guidelines/05-helm.md#defining-metadata-schema-for-kyma-charts) defining standards for creating JSON schemas for Kyma components.

### Governance

We also added a governance CI Job that checks if all components have a JSON schema file with the mandatory properties.

## Kiali

### Installation

By default, Kiali is now enabled together with monitoring.

### Upgrade

Kiali was upgraded to version 1.1.0.

### Console integration

> From now on you can access Kiali from the Kyma Console using a link.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
From now on, you can access Kiali from the Kyma Console using a link.
```

Reviewer: Let's add the screenshot that shows where to look for it -> (Kiali is where "Service Mesh" is,  under "Tracing", left sidebar)
![Kyma-dashboard](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/40655785/62687900-fade1680-b9c7-11e9-9f54-83a0af3fe252.png)

Author: I'm wondering if the testing cluster is ok to use?

### Authentication

We added an integrated authentication strategy to the Kiali dashboard to enable Single-Sign-On based on the Dex configuration.

### Documentation

[Kiali](https://kyma-project.io/docs/components/kiali/) is now documented in the Kyma Docs.

## Knative

### Knative Eventing updated to 0.6

Knative Eventing chart, which is the foundational layer for Kyma Event Bus, was updated to version 0.6. Read more about the update [here](https://github.com/knative/eventing/releases/tag/v0.6.0).

### Knative Serving updated to 0.6.1

Knative Serving chart, which by default is installed with Kyma, was also updated but to version 0.6.1. Learn more about the update details [here](https://github.com/knative/serving/releases/tag/v0.6.1).  

## Kyma CLI

### Test command

> From this release, the Octopus test suites can be managed fully via the Kyma CLI. The user can easily run, list, check, delete, and watch both test suites and test definitions on their cluster.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
From this release, the Octopus test suites can be managed fully using the Kyma CLI. You can easily run, list, check, delete, and watch both test suites and test definitions on your cluster.
```

### Inline documentation

We improved the documentation output of the Kyma CLI. The usage, help and flag documentation, and error messages are more user-friendly now.

## Service Management

### Bundles renamed to addons

Starting from the 1.4 release, all bundles are renamed to addons to better reflect the functionality they provide. This applies to all occurrences, including the names of repositories. See [this](https://github.com/kyma-project/kyma/issues/4783) issue for more information.

### Preview of the new GCP Service Broker addon

> As the Google Cloud Platform (GCP) Service Broker is being deprecated by Google, we have removed this addon from our offering. Instead, we added the preview mode of a new GCP Service Broker, which you can already integrate with Kyma. See [this](https://github.com/kyma-project/addons/issues/94) issue for more information. To learn how to switch to the new addon when upgrading Kyma, read the [migration guide](https://github.com/kyma-project/kyma/blob/master/docs/migration-guides/1.3-1.4.md).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As the Google Cloud Platform (GCP) Service Broker is being deprecated by Google, we have removed this addon from our offering. Instead, we added the preview mode of a new GCP Service Broker which you can already integrate with Kyma. See [this](https://github.com/kyma-project/addons/issues/94) issue for more information. To learn how to switch to the new addon when upgrading Kyma, read the [migration guide](https://github.com/kyma-project/kyma/blob/master/docs/migration-guides/1.3-1.4.md).
```

### Helm Broker supports addons exposed by Git

> From this release, you can expose your addons not only through HTTPS serves, by also using Git. To do so, simply place your addons directly in a Git directory and follow the necessary addon repository structure. Read [this](https://kyma-project.io/docs/master/components/helm-broker/#details-create-addons-repository) document to learn more.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Starting from this release, you can expose your addons not only through HTTPS serves but also using Git. To do so, simply place your addons directly in a Git directory and follow the necessary addon repository structure. Read [this](https://kyma-project.io/docs/master/components/helm-broker/#details-create-addons-repository) document to learn more.
```

## Service Mesh

> With great power comes great... resource consumption? Not anymore! Starting with this release the components of the Service Mesh and Security areas, including the API Controller, the API Server Proxy, Dex, the IAM Kubeconfig Service, Istio sidecars and Istio Management Plane deployments, consume significantly fewer resources helping you to stay within the limits of your license's resource quotas. See [this](https://github.com/kyma-project/kyma/issues/4855) issue for more details.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With great power comes great... resource consumption? Not anymore! Starting with this release the components of the Service Mesh and Security areas, including the API Controller, the API Server Proxy, Dex, the IAM Kubeconfig Service, Istio sidecars, and Istio Management Plane deployments consume significantly fewer resources, helping you to stay within the limits of your license's resource quotas. See [this](https://github.com/kyma-project/kyma/issues/4855) issue for more details.
```

As you already know, the Application Connector uses Istio to ensure a high level of security. From now on, the Application Registry benefits from features introduced in Istio 1.2 to control access to the Application Gateway.

## Backup

### Valero upgraded to 1.0.0

The backup component, Velero, is now upgraded to its latest stable version 1.0.0.

### Installation and setup

We improved and simplified the installation and setup process for Velero. Read the [documentation](https://kyma-project.io/docs/1.4/components/backup/#installation-install-velero) and see how easy it is now to set up Valero either before or after installing Kyma.

### Creating backups

We implemented the backup functionality from scratch to guarantee that all resources in a cluster are properly backed-up. The documentation was updated to reflect the changes we made.

### Restoring from a backup

Also, we have a brand-new restore functionality. It guarantees that a backed-up cluster can be fully recovered. The documentation was updated to reflect the changes we made.

### Backup tests

All backup and restore integration tests are fixed and pass.

### Backups on Azure

> The backup functionality was successfully introduced on Azure (AKS). Follow the steps from the [installation](https://kyma-project.io/docs/1.4/components/backup/#installation-install-velero) guide to setup Valero on Azure.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The backup functionality was successfully introduced on Azure (AKS). Follow the steps from the [installation](https://kyma-project.io/docs/1.4/components/backup/#installation-install-velero) guide to set up Valero on Azure.
```

![Namespace settings](./namespace-settings.png)

## Core and Supporting

### Documentation component

The Kyma project puts a lot of effort into documentation and processes around it, not only with respect to [kyma-project.io](https://kyma-project.io/docs). As you know, you can also access Kyma documentation from the Console UI. In Kyma, we offer features that you can use to document your own services - that does not only relate to static docs provided with Markdown specs but also other formats, such as OpenAPI, AsyncAPI, and OData.

It basically means that at the moment we have 4 different views that render documentation, and you can expect more of them to come in the future releases. We decided that it was about time to consolidate our experience in this area into one component.

- Documentation component project

> As mentioned in the [previous release notes](https://kyma-project.io/blog/2019/7/12/release-notes-13/#documentation-component) we have one single project in which we maintain the Documentation component and just reuse it in different applications. We already introduced it in the Console UI Documentation view in the last release. In the 1.4 release, it was integrated into the Console UI Catalog and Instances views. In a few days, you will see the component being used on [kyma-project.io](https://kyma-project.io/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As mentioned in the [previous release notes](https://kyma-project.io/blog/2019/7/12/release-notes-13/#documentation-component), we have one single project in which we maintain the Documentation component and just reuse it in different applications. We already introduced it in the Console UI Documentation view in the last release. In the 1.4 release, it was integrated into the Console UI Catalog and Instances views. In a few days, you will see the component being used on [kyma-project.io](https://kyma-project.io/).
```

Reviewer: (missing comma) -> `As mentioned in the [previous release notes](https://kyma-project.io/blog/2019/7/12/release-notes-13/#documentation-component), `

- Improved look and feel

While working on the Documentation component, we took a closer look at the styling of different specs and decided to improve and unify them. The style is now unified in Markdown, OpenAPI, and OData. In the next release, we would like to do the same with AsyncAPI.  

This is the new Fiori 3-like design for the OpenAPI spec:

![OpenAPI spec](./openAPI-spec.png)

This is the new Fiori 3-like design for the Markdown spec with the new and much better approach to navigation with the right-hand side navigation:

![Markdown spec](./markdown-spec.png)

This is the new Fiori 3-like design for the OData spec:

![OData spec](./odata-spec.png)

### Conversion and validation service for the AsyncAPI 2.0 specs in the Headless CMS

> Ever since we introduced Kyma and its Application Connector component, we have been getting reports that you could easily register an application with the AsyncAPI spec but the spec did not render successfully in the UI. The reason was each and every time the same: the spec was not valid. It did not display because the validation only worked in the UI.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Ever since we introduced Kyma and its Application Connector component, we have been getting reports that you could easily register an application with the AsyncAPI spec but the spec did not render successfully in the UI. The reason was each and every time the same: the spec was not valid. It wasn't rendered because the validation only worked in the UI.
```

### Plugins 

We deleted all Velero plugins as they are not needed anymore. 

### Known Issues

Valero returns an error during restoring CRDs. The temporary workaround is to divide the restore process in 2 steps. 
1. Restore only CRDs. 
2. Restore the remaining part of the cluster. 

It may also happen that the restore process fails to complete. It is caused by a bug in Velero. In such case, retry to restore your cluster.

## Console 

### System Namespaces hidden in the Console UI 

So far, once you entered a Kubernetes cluster probably you could see quite a bunch of Namespaces. These were built-in Namespaces and also those that came with modules you installed. None of those were the ones a Kyma user wanted to work with. To have a better user experience, by default, the system Namespaces are now hidden. As a result, you can easily find the Namespaces that you work with. To see the system Namespaces, go to the **General Settings** view and under the **Namespace settings** toggle the **Show System Namespaces** option.

> ![Namespace settings](./namespace-settings.png)

Reviewer 2: Please add [frames](https://github.com/kyma-project/community/blob/master/guidelines/content-guidelines/07-screenshots.md#borders) to screenshots to separate them from the background.

Since we introduced Kyma and its Application Connector component, from time to time we were getting reports that you could easily register an application with the AsyncAPI spec but the spec was not successfully rendered in the UI. The reason was always the same: the spec was not valid. It did not display because the validation was UI-side only.  

We decided to finally solve the problem and introduce a service that validates the AsyncAPI spec before it is accepted by the Headless CMS. Because integrating the service with Kyma will take some time, we decided to introduce the validation already for the latest version of the AsyncAPI specification. As a result, the service we introduced not only handles validation of the spec but it also automatically converts the spec into the latest AsyncAPI version. For example, if you register the spec in version 1.0, 1.1, or 1.2, the service converts it to version 2.0.0-rc1.

By default, the functionality is disabled and the service is not provisioned or configured because we do not have the UI support for AsyncAPI 2.0 yet. To enable the validation service and play with it, override the following value:
 
```
apiVersion: v1 

> 

Reviewer 3: I don't think you need whitespaces in this codeblock

### Governance 

We also added a governance CI Job that checks if all components have a JSON schema file with the mandatory properties. 

## Kiali 

### Installation 

By default, Kiali is now enabled together with monitoring. 

### Upgrade 

Kiali was upgraded to version 1.1.0. 

### Console integration 

From now on you can access Kiali from the Kyma Console using a link. 

### Authentication 

We added an integrated authentication strategy to the Kiali dashboard to enable Single-Sign-On based on the Dex configuration. 

### Documentation 

[Kiali](https://kyma-project.io/docs/components/kiali/) is now documented in the Kyma Docs. 

## Knative 

### Knative Eventing updated to 0.6 

Knative Eventing chart, which is the foundational layer for Kyma Event Bus, was updated to version 0.6. Read more about the update [here](https://github.com/knative/eventing/releases/tag/v0.6.0). 

### Knative Serving updated to 0.6.1 

Knative Serving chart, which by default is installed with Kyma, was also updated but to version 0.6.1. Learn more about the update details [here](https://github.com/knative/serving/releases/tag/v0.6.1).  

## Kyma CLI 

### Test command 

> From this release, the Octopus test suites can be managed fully via the Kyma CLI. The user can easily run, list, check, delete and watch test suites and test definitions on their cluster. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
From this release, the Octopus test suites can be managed fully via the Kyma CLI. The user can easily run, list, check, delete and watch test suites, and test definitions on their cluster. 
```
oxford... ;)

Author: Hmm and maybe 
```suggestion
From this release, the Octopus test suites can be managed fully via the Kyma CLI. The user can easily run, list, check, delete, and watch both test suites and test definitions on their cluster.
```

### Inline documentation 

We improved the documentation output of the Kyma CLI. The usage, help and flag documentation, and error messages are more user-friendly now. 

## Service Management 

> ### Bundles renamed to addons 

Reviewer 3: "Bundles" and "addons" are proper names in this case so they should be in quotation marks. I'm not sure about the heading, but in the paragraph you should use the quotation marks IMO.

Reviewer 2: I wouldn't treat them as proper names thb.

Author: I would use the same formatting we have on kyma-projec.io in the Helm Broker section (addons, bundles).
